Security (#7)
tjav/upskillingquests: Security/Identity/Identity-5.md

# Identity-5 B2B

## Description

> Constoso business and IT works very much with external parties and consultants. Traditionally Contoso IT was creating user accounts and distributing passwords to the external users. Often, depending on the system the external party needed to have access Contoso distributed Contoso owend laptops to the external parties. In other scenarios they provided a VPN and a Citrix virtual desktop environment for the externals to access Contoso systems. This extra devices and virtual desktop environments mean constantly growing costs for the IT department, as Contoso leverage more and more external contracted workforce. The creation, management and permission granting for externals is a burden for the central IT, the IT experts often struggle to make a decision whether they should grant access to an external on a given resource or not, this information is often with the business team. This requires extra coordination that takes lots of time from COntoso IdM administrators. The extra IT costs of externals are also visible in support costs as external vendors who access Contoso systems infrequently often require password and MFA authenticator application resets from IT support. This was one of the main reason, why Contoso earlier was eager to implement self-service password reset capability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contoso business and IT works very much with external parties and consultants. Traditionally Contoso IT was creating user accounts and distributing passwords to the external users. Often, depending on the system the external party needed to have access Contoso distributed Contoso owned laptops to the external parties. In other scenarios they provided a VPN and a Citrix virtual desktop environment for the externals to access Contoso systems. This extra devices and virtual desktop environments mean constantly growing costs for the IT department, as Contoso leverage more and more external contracted workforce. The creation, management and permission granting for externals is a burden for the central IT, the IT experts often struggle to make a decision whether they should grant access to an external on a given resource or not, this information is often with the business team. This requires extra coordination that takes lots of time from Contoso IdM administrators. The extra IT costs of externals are also visible in support costs as external vendors who access Contoso systems infrequently often require password and MFA authenticator application resets from IT support. This was one of the main reason, why Contoso earlier was eager to implement self-service password reset capability.
```

> 

Reviewer: empty line can be removed

## Review and discussion
What are the benefits of B2B compared to creating accounts in the own environment? Why we could not or should not treat external users similarly like our internal users?
What are the pro-s and cons?
What security risks are mitigated with B2B? What security risks are introduced?
What would be your elevator pitch on Azure B2B?

If you want to talk through or validate your quest after you completed, contact [Matyas Safranka](mailto:matyas@microsoft.com) via email or Teams.

## References

> It is not mandantory to use these references.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is not mandatory to use these references.
```
